Report 12: Udder health worklist
The udder health work list is a summary of the cows with udder health attentions for reduction in milk yield, increased conductivity, colour changes and optionally a cell count increase. This will help to identify cows with a risk for mastitis at an early stage. 

How can you apply Report 12? 
Click Reports > All reports or Health > Report 12 – Udder Health Work List 

This report provides an overview of all udder health attentions over the previous 24 hours. Cows will remain on this report for 24 hours after the latest alert. Attentions are shown on a quarter basis and combine the information from all milk sensors (yield, conductivity, colour and optional cell count). 

 

If, for example, a cow receives a ‘new’ attention at 6 am in the form of a conductivity + deviation day production attention and then again at 2 pm she receives a colour attention, this latter attention is considered a new attention and the cow will be shown on this report for a further 24 hours. 


What does report 12 tell you?
Attentions are highlighted in red. This will help you see why a cow is on the report. An overview of udder heath parameters of all cows (including old udder health attentions) can be found in report 23 – Udder Health analyses. 
Cows with an active milk separation appear on Report 12 and are indicated with an [M]. 

Some rules of thumb: 

- Normal conductivity values range between 60 and 80 

- Conductivity higher than 100 and color attention: probably clinical mastitis. 

- Conductivity between 90 – 100 and high cell count: probably sub-clinical mastitis. 

- E. coli is usually detected by an abnormal color area and conductivity at a normal level 

- In some cases, a letter is displayed between the brackets: 

[S] = milk separation advised

[A] = automatic milk separation

[M] = manual milk separation

Report 13: Failed milking
Report 13 – Failed Milkings shows cows whose last (actual) milking failed, so cows with a subsequent successful milking will disappear from the list. Using the report correctly will help reduce the number of failed milkings. 

How can you apply Report 13? 
Click Reports > Milking > Report 13 – Failed milkings

Report 13 should be checked twice a day, so you will know at an early stage if something is happening. The tab visit results show why this cow is on the report.  

TIP! Always check what the reason for a failed milking is to avoid a failure the next time.  

 

What can you do to reduce failed milkings? 
Cow related: 

- Fly control/ventilation to prevent disturbance 

- Reset teat coordinates in Horizon 

- Provide assistance for cows with udder swelling 

- Udder conformation is suitable for automatic milking system 

- Improve barn/cubicle hygiene to prevent dirty udders 

Robot and Horizon  

- Calibrated robot components (laser, arm, camera, weighing floor) 

- Clean cleaning laser, 3D camera, weighing platform 

- Milk access table 

- Service schedule is up to date 

- Software is up to date 

It is important to reduce the number of failed milkings because: 

Robot capacity: 

- every failed milking can take up to eight minutes

- A failed cow needs to return to the robot an extra time to be milked successfully 

Reduces consumables costs 

- Less washing time, which reduces water & chemical waste consumption 

- Lowers electricity consumption 

- Reduces misalignment of the robot arm and/or jetters 

- Milk cups stay cleaner for longer 

- Decreases robot shutdown after three consecutive failed milkings 

Cow benefits 

- High failures per cow can create negative associations with the robot. Low failures will reduce the negative association. 

- Decreasing risk of udder health problems, e.g. mastitis 

- Cows with an incomplete milking have a more frequent milking, this also means more frequent opening of the teat canal, which increases the risk of bacteria entering the udder and causing mastitis 

Farmer benefits 

- Reduces labor time 

- Less time fetching cows 

- Less time supervising failed cows 

- Fewer robots needed to be restarted 

Report 16: Herd overview
The herd overview will help you to gain insights into the daily performance of your herd over the latest period.  

Where can you find report 16?
Click Reports > Herd > Report 16 – Herd overview

 

The following information can be found in report 16: 

- No. of cows 

- Milk production 

- Day production 

- Milkings 

- Refusals 

- Failures 

- Milk separated 

- Average cell count  

The top 2 rows show the average and the total sum of the data in the report. The period for which the report can show the data can be set by: 3 dots on the right top corner > Settings > select the number of days for which you would like to see the data. 

Report 18: Rest feed
Rest feed is a good indicator for health and/or management issues. Rest feed is caused if the cow cannot eat her daily amount of concentrate during her visits over the day. The reason a cow might not eat her daily amount can have different reasons, such as not enough robot visits to eat her concentrates, a short period to eat concentrates due to a high milk speed or due to a low feed speed (setting). 

Where can you find report 18? 
Click Reports > Feeding > Report 18 – Rest feed

Rest feed is the amount of feed that the cow was unable to eat. This can be caused by irregular visit behavior, low intake per visit or a low number of visits.  

 

Sort the list on the column Total Rest feed to display the cows with the most rest feed at the top. Try to find out why the cow did not eat all her concentrates and try to solve the issue. At herd level, a total rest feed of max 5% is acceptable. Check the chapter feeding to find out the moment at which a cow starts to appear on this report. 

More information about how rest feed is calculated can be found here

Report 19: Heat probability
Report 19 shows cows which might be in heat, based on increased activity. Cows will only appear on the report if Qwes Leg/Act or Qwes H/HR tags are used and if they exceed the threshold which is set in the activity settings. Heat probability combines information such as the number of days after calving, days since last insemination/heat and the average number of days between heat cycles. 

 

How do you apply report 19 – Heat Probability? 
Go to Reports > Reproduction > Report 19 – Heat Probability 

Optimum insemination moment: 

The dot indicating the cow moves along in real time; the green zone is the Optimal insemination interval, in function of the time of first heat attention as calculated for this farm. 

The yellow zone is the initial 3 hours and the final 6 hours after the optimal insemination interval. The likelihood of conception when the cow is in the yellow zone is lower but is still possible. The green zone starts from 3 hours after the time of first heat attention until 19 hours. The length of the green zone is 16 hours; the yellow zone 3+6 = 9 hours.

There is a small difference between the SCR Sensehub tags and other SCR and Nedap tags. For Nedap and SCR sensors that are not Sensehub, there is a consistent speed of movement for the dot along the line, unaffected by any changes or variables. In the case of farms using SCR Sensehub controllers, once a cow registers a heat peak above the threshold, it appears on the H&I task with the dot positioned in the yellow zone. However, if there is a subsequent higher peak within the optimal insemination timeframe, the cursor on the bar retrogresses to the position 3 hours after the first heat. This adjustment accounts for the changing optimal insemination moment based on the intensity of the heat activity.

Clicking the cow number in the first column opens up the cow card. The Activity tab on the cow card shows the activity (dark blue) and the heat probability (red). 

Note: rumination (shown in light blue) also decreases when a cow is in heat. 

Cow Card – Graph Activity 
When an action such as an insemination or a heat is entered, the cow is automatically removed from report 19. When no action is entered, the cow will be removed from report 19 after 26 hours since her activity peak.  

 

Note: activity is measured continuously and can create an attention for all the time the data is being read, however, the data is re-checked each 2-hour block. Meaning: if, for example, in the first 45 minutes of the last 2-hour block a cow was very active and the information is read out, it might appear the cow should have an activity attention. If, however, the cow has nearly no activity during the remaining 1 hour and 15 minutes, it will be clear that on average throughout that 2-hour time block she did not exceed the activity attention threshold, meaning the attention will be ‘withdrawn’. 

Report 20: Milk day production in time
Go to Reports > Milking > Graph 20 – Milk Day in production time

This graph gives a clear insight into some general farm performance levels last month such as the visit behavior (milkings, refusals), failed milkings, milk production, weight, concentrates and rest feed.  

 

TIP! the timeframe from this graph can be increased from 30 days up to 90 days in Settings. This provides better insight into farm performance over a longer period. This can especially be useful to monitor certain management decisions (e.g. ration changes). 

Report 23: Udder health analyze
Report 23 – Udder Health Analyze shows all cows which currently have an attention for udder health. Attentions are shown on a quarter basis and combine the information from all milk sensors (yield, conductivity, colour and optional cell count). This list is clearly longer than report 12. We advise using this report 1 x week, whereas report 12 – Udder Health work should be checked 2 x day. In case of udder health issues (e.g. high cell count) we advise using this report instead of report 12. 

How do you use report 23? 
Click Reports > Health > Report 23 – Udder Health Analyze 

 

Some rules of thumb: 

- Normal conductivity values range between 60 and 80 

- Conductivity higher than 100 and colour attention [S]: probably clinical mastitis 

- Conductivity between 90-100 and high cell count: probably sub-clinical mastitis 

- E. coli is usually detected by an abnormal colour area and conductivity at a normal level 

Report 24: Health activity/rumination
Note: this report is only available when you have the SCR/Allflex Qwes-HR-LD tags. 

This health index is based on the rumination and/or activity of that cow. The lower the number, the higher the possibility this cow has a health issue. When the health is between 75 and 80 it is marked yellow, when the health index is below 75 it is marked red.   

How to apply Report 24 ‘Health activity/rumination’? 
Go to Reports > Health 

- Activity deviation: this shows the deviation in activity. When there is a decrease in activity, this number is shown as a negative number. 

- Rumination minutes: this shows the rumination minutes from this cow in the last 24 hours. 

- Max rumination change 24 hours: this shows the difference between the highest and lowest value during last 24 hours. 

- 3-day rumination difference: This number indicated the rumination increase/decrease in minutes. The rumination of last 24 hours is compared with the rumination minutes of the day before yesterday.   

- Eventually, it can be set that a cow appears earlier or later on this report. Therefore, select ‘settings’ in the top of the report and adjust the filter. 

 

The health index is based on activity increase/decrease and rumination increase/decrease (if rumination tags are available). During the first 14 days of lactation the rumination minutes are expected to increase, this is also included within the health index calculation. 

Short introduction. Example: User management (why is this important in Horizon/for the farmer) 

To make sure every user focus on the right tasks and you have a good overview of who does what, Users can be added and can be permitted the right amount of access in Horizon.  

Create a user (how can this be used/where it can be found) 

(Quick summary of settings, if you know the content, but cannot remember where to change the setting) 

Click in manage > user and role management > user on add user (Use steps in the header, and a more detailed explanation in the text below) 

To add a user, you have to click on the left red bar on the manage menu. Once you are there, click in the block that has the title User and Role management. When you are there, you can select User management. In this menu you can click on add user to insert the details and credentials [add screenshots for each step and mark buttons you have to click with one uniform colour throughout all help articles]. 

Assign user to a shift by going to ….. 

[more detailed info about which steps to take here](possibility to link to another page here about how to set up a shift) 

Assign tasks to a shift by dragging tasks of your choice  

[more detailed info about which steps to take here] 

Putting User Management into practice (What is it exactly, and which background information is relevant) 

User management is not only for farms with employees. One- or two-man farms can also benefit from it. By setting up the right users. Every user can tailor Lely Horizon to their own benefits. Besides that, you are also able to see to learn more about user management, please take a look at the User and Role management E-learning in the Farmers Academy. 

Report 31-34: Calendar
These reports give you insight into cows that are expected for calving, expected for dry off and expected for heat and reproduction check.

This insight into the expected number of cows requiring attention will provide you with the opportunity to plan and act accordingly.

When does a cow appear on the report?
The moment that a cow appears on the report related to calving, dry off and heat can be set via:

Manage > Reproduction > Lactation to see or edit the settings.

Cows for a reproduction check are filtered based on the advanced filter repro-checklist. You can see or edit this filter via: Manage -> Farm setup -> Advanced filters -> Repro-checklist


What is shown in the reports?
Report 31 shows a list of cows expected for calving, and includes information on expected calving, group, lactation number, days, dry off days, name of the bull and days pregnant.

Report 32 shows a list of cows that are close to dry off, including relevant parameters.

Report 33 shows cows expected to be in heat. This report shows open, open cyclic and inseminated cows above a certain number of lactation days, including relevant parameters.

Report 34 shows cows for the pregnancy check, based on the advanced filter repro-checklist.

Report 35: Visit behavior
Report 35 Visit behavior shows the results of the milk access settings for individual cows. By default, the report is sorted according to milk yield per milking, so the cows at the top and bottom of the report should be checked. 

Go to Reports > Milking -> Report 35 – Milking – Visit Behavior 

 

Some rules of thumb: 

- If the average milk yield per milking is much lower than 10 kg (22 lb), then the cow is being milked too frequently and the milk access settings should be adjusted.  

- If the average milk yield per milking is much higher than10 kg (22 lb), the cows can be milked more frequently. In these cases, the Milk frequency column should be compared with the Avg Milkings column to find out whether the access settings should be changed or whether the cow simply does not enter the robot in time. 

Report 41: Cow robot efficiency
Report 41 provides an insight into the efficiency of individual cows. It therefore also provides an ideal way to identify inefficient cows to increase robot capacity. An important parameter in the report is the milk yield per box time per week. This parameter shows how much milk per minute the robot can extract from the cow for every minute she utilizes the robot from stepping in to stepping out. 

 


Where can you find the report? 
Go to Reports > Milking > Report 41 – Milking – Cow Robot Efficiency 


How do you apply the report? 
The aim of this report is to gain an insight in your least (and most) efficient cows. The efficiency in this report is shown as “Average Milk Yield/Box Time/Week”. Cows with a low milk output per minute spent in the robot can be found by sorting the list according to the column. The complete box time includes two main actions: milking and treatment. The treatment time is the time spent walking into the robot, swinging in the arm, pre-treatment, finding the teats, attachment, spraying and walking out of the robot. It is possible to improve the time spent on each of these two actions.  

To optimize milking time (milk speed) 
Milk when udders contain more milk. The optimum volume of milk per milking is 10 kg or 22 lb. This can be influenced by adapting the milk access. Our advice is to work together with your Farm Management Advisor if you wish to adjust the milk access table. With the udders containing more milk per milking, time savings can be made in the treatment time. For example, a cow producing 30 kg per day and an average yield of 8 kg will be milked 4 times a day. With an optimum yield of 10 kg, she would be milked 3 times per day. The milk speed itself will not change a lot, but reducing the milking times by 1 will save 1 pre- and post-treatment time. 

A second way to improve the milking time is to selectively breed cows with a higher milk speed. 

To optimize treatment time
In order to best optimize the treatment time, consider each treatment step separately. There are several ways to optimize the treatment time: 

- Shave the udder and tail on a regular basis to improve connection performance. 

- Disable milking for a specific quarter when that quarter is empty. This might be the case for cows at the end of lactation/shortly before dry-off. 

- Put cows in a group for twice a day milking only. This is an option for cows at the end of their lactation when there is less pressure in the udder. Since their udders are not full enough, the rear teats can be too close together, which will impact the connection performance. 

- Put cows in a group for milking only under supervision. This is an option for cows with an abnormal udder shape. The attachment time takes longer for these cows and a quicker connection time can only be achieved when someone is able to support this process. 

- Recalibrate the robot arm. Calibrating the robot arm will improve the accuracy of the arm and therefore improve the connection performance.

- Clean the laser more frequently. We advise cleaning the TDS laser screen at least once a day. If the laser is not cleaned daily, dirt can build up and start to cover the screen. This will have negative impact on the connection performance. 

Report 42: Cow daily production
This report shows the individual daily yield, feed information and SCC indication and impact on cell count on the herd.  

A red cell in the SCC indication indicates that cell count of that specific cow is considerably high.   

Report 52: Analyze lactations
This graph provides an overview of the feeding and milking performance of the herd throughout lactation. It is possible to filter the graph on only 1st, 2nd, 3rd and higher lactations or combined using the filter options. 

Graph 52 shows the milk yield, number of visits, feed intake, animal weight and fat and protein levels of all cows currently milked in the robot in relation to the number of days in lactation. 

 

Where can you find the graph? 
Go to Reports > Milking > 52 – Analyze – Cow Lactations


How do you evaluate the graph?
All the factors used to create graph 52 can help with the evaluation of the following: 

- Peak milk production. 

- Persistency of the yield throughout lactation. 

- Loss of weight (only applicable with weighing floor) and negative energy balance in early lactation.  

- Amount of concentrate feed used for milk production. 

- Number of milkings/refusals per cow in early and later lactation. 

- Milk contents levels throughout lactation. 

All factors can be disabled and enabled in the Legends dropdown beside Filters. The specific numbers will appear if the mouse is moved over the graph. 

Report 55: Milk sampling attention
Report 55 lists the cows that did not visit the robot within the time the robot was set to milk sampling. Cows can also be added to the report if the sampling method is changed during active milk sampling.  

Where can you find the report? 
Go to Reports > Milking > 55 – Milk sampling attention 

How do you use the report? 
Report 55 shows cows that have not had a successful milking during the time the milk sampling was active. It indicates that – with milk sampling still active on the robot unit – the cow still needs to be milked. In addition, it also shows if the cow had a failed milking during active milk sampling and if there is already a bottle filled with milk from the listed cow. Based on this information, a decision can be made whether to fetch the cow for milking if the sampling is still active to ensure all cows are sampled. 

Report 56: Robot performance
The report shows the performance for each robot on a daily basis. We advise checking this report every day. A red cell for the dead milk time or milk time indicates an issue with that particular quarter. 

Go to Reports > Milking > Report 56 – Milking – Robot Performance 

 

 


TIP!: keep an eye out for gradual changes in milk speed, number of milkings, number of failed milkings, DMT (Dead Milk Time) and MT (Milk Times) for each robot. They might indicate slow developing problems on the robots or sensors. 

Report 70 Feeding – Data per feed type per day
This feeding report will help you to gain insight into the total feed amounts and costs per day of feed provided by Astronaut milking robots, Cosmix feeders or distributed by Vector for the selected location over the selected period.

Where can I find report 70?
1) Click on Reports
2) Select the Feeding tab
3) Click on Report 70 Feeding – Data per feed type per day
 
4) A Settings window will appear. Select the Feed group name from the dropdown and the period (between particular dates or days) for which data should be shown in the table (Report Date) and graph (Graph Date).

5) Click on Open report

 


Which information can be found in report 70?
The following information can be found in report 70:

- The total amount fed per day displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The fed amounts of concentrates, roughages and minerals displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The feed cost per 100 units of milk

- The feed cost of roughages, concentrates and minerals per 100 units of milk

- The total feed costs

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the period for which data is shown in the report.

 

Please be aware that prices and dry matter contents of feedstuffs should be regularly updated in order to make sure that feed costs and dry matter intakes are displayed correctly in this report.

How can I change the feed amounts displayed on a product basis to a dry matter basis or vice versa?
 

Choose between kg dry matter or kg product from the dropdown in the top right-hand corner. It is also possible to view the costs only or together with the feed amounts on a product basis.


How can I hide and unhide columns?
Click on the ‘Customize columns’ button  Select the columns to display by ticking them.

 
How can I specify the period or locations for which data is shown in the report?
The period (between particular dates or days) and locations for which the report shows the data can be specified in the settings. The settings can be found as follows:

Click on the button with the 3 dots Click on ‘Settings’
How can I display the feed costs as a graph?
The feed costs per 100 units of milk can be displayed as a bar chart by clicking on  

 


How can I hide and unhide feed types in the bar chart?
 
The feed types can be hidden or unhidden in the bar chart as follows:

Click on Legends in the top right-hand cornerTick or untick the feed types as required
or

Click on the feed type name in the legend underneath the bar chart. The name of feed type that is hidden is shown crossed out.
 
Report 71 Feeding – Data per feedstuff per day
This feeding report will help you to gain insight into the total feed amounts and costs per day of feedstuffs provided by Astronaut milking robots, Cosmix feeders or distributed by Vector for the selected location and the selected period.

Where can I find report 71?
1) Click on Reports
2) Select the Feeding tab
3) Click on Report 71 Feeding – Data per feedstuff per day
 
 
4) A Settings window will appear. Select the Feed group name from the dropdown and the period (between particular dates or days) for which data should be shown in the table (Report Date) and graph (Graph Date).

5) Click on Open report


Which information can be found in report 71?
The following information can be found in report 71:

- The date

- The location in which feed is distributed

- The total amount fed per day displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The fed amounts per feedstuff displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The total feed cost per day of all feedstuffs together

- The feed costs per feedstuff per day

Amounts (on a dry matter and product basis) and costs are displayed for all feedstuffs provided by Astronaut milking robots, Cosmix feeders or distributed by Vector for the selected location and the selected period.

Please be aware that prices and dry matter contents of feedstuffs should be regularly updated in order to make sure that feed costs and dry matter intakes are displayed correctly in this report.

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the period for which data is shown in the report.

 

How can I change the feed amounts displayed on a product basis to a dry matter basis or vice versa?
 
Choose between kg dry matter or kg product from the dropdown in the top right-hand corner. It is also possible to view the costs only or together with the feed amounts on a product basis.

How can I hide and unhide columns?
Click on the ‘Customize columns’ button  Select the columns to display by ticking them.

 
How can I specify the period or locations for which data is shown in the report?
The period (between particular dates or days) and locations for which the report shows the data can be specified in the settings. The settings can be found as follows:

Click on the button with the 3 dots Click on ‘Settings’
How can I display the fed amounts and feed costs as a graph?
The fed amounts and feed costs per feedstuff per day can be displayed as bar charts by clicking on  

How can I hide and unhide feed types in the bar chart?
Feed types can be hidden/unhidden in the bar chart by clicking on the feedstuff name in the legend underneath the bar chart. The name of feedstuff that is hidden is shown crossed out.

Report 72 Feeding – Data per feed type per cow per day
This feeding report will help you gain insight into the average feed amounts and costs per cow per day of feed provided by Astronaut milking robots, Cosmix feeders or distributed by Vector for the selected location over the selected period.

Where can I find report 72?
1) Click on Reports
2) Select the Feeding tab
3) Click on Report 72 Feeding – Data per feed type per cow per day
 
 
4) A Settings window will appear. Select the Feed group name from the dropdown and the period (between particular dates or days) for the data to be shown in the table (Report Date) and graph (Graph Date).

5) Click on Open report


What information does report 72 contain?
The following information can be found in report 72:

- Date

- Location

- Number of animals

- The total fed amounts per cow per day displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The average fed amounts per cow per day of concentrates, roughage and minerals displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The concentrates plus minerals to roughage ratio on a dry matter basisFeed costs per cow per day of concentrates, roughage and minerals

- The average rumination minutes

- Average day production per cow (not corrected for fat and protein levels)

- Average lactation days

- Feed efficiency, which is average day production divided by dry matter intake per cow (Feed efficiency = milk production / (concentrate from Astronaut (- rest feed from Astronaut) + mixed ration (Dosed weight – % rest feed)). Please note that:

When use fat protein correction is activated on the fence page, milk is corrected in the fat and protein ratio in Vector reports and in the feed efficiency KPI on the main dashboard

The dry matter content of feed stuffs should be regularly updated in order to make sure that the correct dry matter intake is used in the calculation.

Dry matter intake per cow is corrected with the ‘rest feed %’ set on the fence settings page of the individual fence. Rest feed % on the fence page = feed you don’t want to feed the cows anymore. The goal of keeping track of your rest feed % is to estimate dry matter intake as precisely as possible. Common values for rest feed are between 1–5 %.

Rest feed can be measured by weighing the rest feed at the fence and comparing this to the dosed feed weight. One method could be:1) remove all rest feed 2) let the Vector feed as usual 3) after three days (or depending on the farm’s management) pause feeding for approximately six hours to let the cows eat all the high quality feed 4) remove and weigh all the rest feed 5) Calculate the rest feed using the following formula: %Rest feed = (KG measured rest feed / Total KG dosed feed between cleaning moments)* 100 6) enter the rest feed % in Horizon.

Rest feed % needs to be filled in manually. The frequency of changing the rest feed % depends on ration changes (for example, if you have made a change to your ration, it might be a good time to check the rest feed %) or when you notice fluctuations in dry matter intake.

 

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the data period covered in the report.

 
How can I change the feed amounts displayed from a product basis to a dry matter basis and vice versa?
 
Choose between kg dry matter or kg product using the dropdown in the top right corner. It is also possible to view the costs only or together with the feed amounts on product basis

How can I hide and unhide columns?
Click on the ‘Customize Columns’ button  Select the columns you want to display by ticking them.

 
How can I specify the period or location of the data shown in the report?
You can set the period (between particular dates or days) and locations of the data contained in the report in the settings. The settings can be found as follows:

Click on the button with the three dots Click on ‘Settings’
How can I change from table view to a graphics view?
Table view can be changed to graphics view by clicking on  

How can I hide and unhide feed types in the bar chart?
 
Feed types can be hidden or unhidden in the bar chart as follows:

Click on Legends in the top right-hand corner
Tick or untick parameter boxes
or

Click on the parameter name in the legend underneath the bar chart – hidden feed types are shown with a strikethrough.
 
Report 73 Feeding – Data per feed stuff per cow per day
This feeding report will help you to gain insight into the average feed amounts and costs per cow per day of feed provided by Astronaut milking robots, Cosmix feeders or distributed by Vector for the selected location over the selected period.

Where can I find report 73?
1) Click on Reports

2) Select the Feeding tab

3) Click on Report 73 Feeding – Data per feed stuff per cow per day

 
 
4) A Settings window will appear. Select the Feed group name from the dropdown and the period (between particular dates or days) for which data should be shown in the table (Report Date) and graph (Graph Date).

5) Click on Open report

 

Which information can be found in report 73?
The following information can be found in report 73:

- The date

- The location

- The number of animals

- The total fed amounts per cow per day displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The average fed amounts per feedstuff per cow per day displayed on a product or dry matter basis

- The total feed cost per cow per day

- The feed costs per feedstuff per cow per day

Please be aware that prices and dry matter contents of feedstuffs should be regularly updated in order to make sure that feed costs and dry matter intakes are displayed correctly in this report.

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the period for which data is shown in the report.

How can I change the feed amounts displayed on a product basis to a dry matter basis or vice versa?
 
Choose between kg dry matter or kg product from the dropdown in the top right-hand corner. It is also possible to view the costs only or together with the feed amounts on a product basis.

How can I hide and unhide columns?
Click on the ‘Customize columns’ button  Select the columns to display by ticking them.

 
How can I specify the period or locations for which data is shown in the report?
The period (between particular dates or days) and locations for which the report shows the data can be specified in the settings. The settings can be found as follows:

Click on the button with the 3 dots Click on ‘Settings’

How can I change from table view to a graphical view?
The table view can be changed to a graph by clicking on  

How can I hide and unhide feed types in the bar chart?
The feed types can be hidden or unhidden in the bar chart as follows:

Click on Legends in the top right-hand cornerTick or untick the boxes for the parameters
 
or

Click on the parameter name in the legend underneath the bar chart. The name of feed type that is hidden is shown crossed out.

 
Report 74 Feeding – Beef rounds
This feeding report will help you to gain insight into the average growth, feed amounts and costs per animal per beef round.

Where can I find report 74?
1) Click on Reports

2) Select the Feeding tab

3) Click on Report 74 Feeding – Beef rounds

 
A Settings window will appear. Click on Open report


Which information can be found in report 74?
The following information per beef round can be found in report 74:

- Start date

- End date

- Duration (days)Average number of animals

- Average weight at start date

- Average weight at end date

- Average growth per animal per day

- Feed conversion

- Total amount of feed fed per animal

- Total amount per feedstuff fed per animal

- Total feed costs per animal

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the period for which data is shown in the report. 

How can I change the feed amounts displayed on a product basis to a dry matter basis or vice versa?
 
Choose between kg dry matter or kg product from the dropdown in the top right-hand corner. It is also possible to view the costs only or together with the feed amounts on a product basis.

How can I hide and unhide columns?
Click on the ‘Customize columns’ button  Select the columns to display by ticking them.

How can I specify the period or locations for which data is shown in the report?
The period (between particular dates or days) and locations for which the report shows the data can be specified in the settings. The settings can be found as follows:

Click on the button with the 3 dots  Click on ‘Settings’

Report 76 Feeding – Vector feed rounds
This feeding report will help you to gain insight into the feed amounts distributed at fences distributed by Vector for the selected location over the selected period.

Where can I find report 76?
1) Click on Reports

2) Select the Feeding tab

3) Click on Report 76 Feeding – Vector feed rounds

 
A Settings window will appear. Select the Feed group name from the dropdown and the period (between particular dates or days) for which the data should be shown.

 
Click on Open report


Which information can be found in report 76?
The following information can be found in report 76:

- The date and time of the feed round

- The fence name at which the feed is distributed

- The location at which the fence is located

- The time interval (hh:mm) between feedings

- The name of the ration distributed

- The MFR number that distributed the feed

- The total distributed feed amount at the fence on a product basis

- The distributed amounts per feedstuff on a product basis

- The share of the feedstuff within the load (%)

The rows AVG and SUM show the average and the total sum for the period for which data is shown in the report.

Reports: Customizing reports and adding tags
In reports, you can either create new reports yourself or you can edit an existing report and make it your own. The benefit of this functionality is that you as a farmer can optimise your data in the report to make sure it meets your needs.

 


How do you add a report?
Step 1: Go to the report page and click on the ‘+’ button. Click on add a report.

Step 2: Enter the new name and select the right field to create your report.

Template: select the right template, e.g. if you need historical data for a cow, click on Cow Daily (history)

Tags:  assign the right tag to your report. This report will then appear in the correct category, e.g. reproduction.

 

Fields: select the field for the new reports.

Filters: use basic or advanced filters to create your report.

Step 3: Click create report

How do you edit a report?
Lely Default Reports can be opened and copied for editing.

Step 1: Open the report you want to edit, click on the three dots and duplicate to make a copy of the report

Step 2: Click edit to open the field with edit possibilities

Step 3: Customize your own report. It is possible to make a report with the data you want to show, e.g. to add Milk Fat/Protein ratio to the report, drag Milk Fat/Protein ratio from All Fields to Selected Fields

TIP! As farmer, you can change the tag for custom reports by editing the report. This helps you to divide reports into categories to make them easier to find.

Reports: E-link sorting via Lely Horizon
On the A5 robot, it is not possible to set your sorting. However, Horizon has a feature in Horizon that enables you to sort columns correctly. For A4 robots and older models, you can still sort via the e-link by pressing the header. Follow these simple steps to sort orders through Horizon.

Step 1
Navigate to a report in Horizon where the “show on Xlink” setting is enabled. (Figure 1).

 

Figure 1 Show on XLink

Step 2
Below the shuffle bar, you will find the column sorting option to select the sorting for the E-link. If you want to change the sorting, just select the desired order and save. The information will be sent to the robot screen and the sorting will be displayed accordingly.

 

Figure 2 Column sorting

Reports: favorite reports
Reports provide you with a good overview of groups of cows or the total herd. The reports you use most often can be marked as favourites. Additionally, you can easily access these reports via the favourite reports widget if you have enabled this on your dashboard. Favourite reports also appear at the top of the reports overview when you open the Report section. 

Reports are mostly used when managing your herd on a more analytical level. Favorite reports are not recommended for use in your daily tasks; we would recommend using your shifts and tasks for this.  

How do you mark a report as favorite? 
Go to reports and click on the star to mark your report as a favorite.  

How do you set up the favorite report widget? 
Step 1: When on your dashboard, click on Add widget at the bottom. 

 

Step 2: Choose the widget type Favourite reports. 

Step 3: Select if you want to see the widget on the left side bar or in the main dashboard.    

Step 4: Click Apply changes to save your changes. 

 

Step 5: Now you have the reports on your dashboard. 

- Click on the three dots in the top right-hand corner of the widget.  

- Click Edit. 

- Now you can move the position of the widget up or down and/or change the section. 

Reports: Health task and report
Why health task and report? 
Prevention is better than curing. The health report or task combines data from available sensors to detect cows with (first) signs of illness and show these in one central overview. This report or task helps you making the right decision at an early stage. Displayed cows always need attention; therefore, it is advised to embed this report in your daily routines. Besides, the generated ‘sick chance’ is a good input for automatic routing. 

How to apply health task and report? 
The smart health report is a standard report and uses the available sensors to generate a so-called ‘sick chance’ per animal.  

The health task or report shows all cows exceeding the sick chance threshold (by default 10). The calculated sick chance indicates the chance the cow is sick ranging from 0 to 100. For each cow on the list, all deviating values are shown including a bar indicating the severity of the deviation. 
If a cow has already a treatment assigned, a first aid box is shown. 

 

The increase/decrease arrow in the sick chance bar is determined by:

- Increase 5% above max sick chance last 24 hours

- Decrease 5% below average sick chance last 24 hours

The NEW icon in the column sick chance status is determined by:

- Sick chance of the last 14 days is below the threshold of the famer (excluding last 24 hours) and

- Cow is currently not in treatment

You can add a treatment to a cow by clicking on the three dots at the end of the row and select ‘Health treatment’. Note: Select the treatment that suits the condition of the cow. It is recommended to use treatment plans, this document explains more about why we recommend this, and how to create them.

Good to know when interpreting the health report:  
– Milking parameters are only included for cows “in production”  
– Cows below 60 days will get more attention as they are more open for disease 
– Cow over 200 days since insemination will get less attention  
– Cows with a registered heat or insemination or a heat attention will get less attention, because heat can cause abnormal values.  
– Young stock and dry cows have lower levels of attention because there is less data available but are included in the report.

 

 What parameters can be shown in the health reports  
Herd Correction  
For the parameters, milk drop, temperature, eating time the values are corrected for herd drops. This is done to avoid that a drop of the whole herd causes many extra attentions  

MilkDropKg  
The milk drop is calculated based on 24-hour milk yield data of last visits. To get the moving average, expected milk day production is subtracted with actual milk production registered via the robot. The last day where there is a milking was taken into account. 

WeightTrend and TotWeightLoss  
The weight trend and total loss are coming from weighing floor aka “gravitor” after smoothing the data in the original algorithm the outcomes of those are taken into account. Total weight loss is taken from the time there was a tipping point (typically at calving event) till now for example if cow weighted at calving around 650 Kg and now dropped to 540 her weight drop is 110 Kg. Only negative values are taken into the calculation. Weight trend is evaluated to make sure that cow not quickly uses weight. it is expressed as Kg/Day loss in weight.  
Additionally, sensors are not taken into account twice, for example, acute weight drop and weight trend deviations, or milkdrop and milktrend. Only the parameter deviating most is selected.  

Activity & Activity(rumination) (SCR)  
The activity and rumination values are evaluated by algorithm SCR proposed and which is also used in report 24. (see column index activity & rumination) baseline of algorithm is 100 % is healthy, <= 86 cow is needed attention, lowest values seen are around 20.  
For reporting there is made a differentiation so it is easy to grasp if we are looking at an H-tag or HR-tag.  

Activity & Activity(eating) (NEDAP)  
Activity is comparing activity levels for last 24 hour to values between -1 and -11 days  
Eating is evaluated the same way as activity, for the eatingtime sensors (LD), the same like rumination the values are combined for both activity & eating and are presented to the algorithm as a single parameter. in this single parameter eating is more important than activity.  
Note: for some older 2 hour tags (read out by robot instead of LD) it was found a lot of blocks with activity counter value being 0 , those tags are identified and excluded from algorithm.  

InActive Behaviour (Nedap Smarttag all-in-one) Rumination + Eating  
For the smarttag all-in-one (the tag which supports cowlocator also)  
Attention is comparable to Nedap velos we are checking the time in day cow is inactive. InActive = 24 hours – (Rumination + eating)  
Inactiveness is compared with reference period, once increased significantly cow is expected to be sick. Instead of showing this percentage we are expressing this vaule as hh:mm  

Acute Inactive 
Acute inactive is described as a total/ sudden absence of any activity measured by rumination and or eating sensors, acute inactive is represented as hh:mm. 
Nedap:  looks at the most recent 5 hours when data was received, checks if rumination and/or eating is below treshold and if so the algorithm continuously goes back in time till when time spent on rumination / eating was below treshold. This time is represented as the time inactive. 
SCR-DLL:  Uses a value of inactive minutes which is calculated only 10 days before expected calving and 5 days after calving in the case of absence of rumination minutes. (also known as calving– distress) 
SCR-Sensehub:  Sensehub checks for all cows the inactiveness of animals for both rumination and eating, and presents it to Horizon as distress minutes. This value is show 

General: 
Any Inactiveness below 5 hours is ignored. Also any tag without decent reference values for rumination and / or eating is ignored (< 150 minutes), this to make sure we don’t get alerts for unproperly attached / malfunctioning tags. There are other reports for this. 
Also Inactiveness on lactation day 0 is ignored. So user can get alerts before calving is entered but not after, however normal activity continues to monitor the cow here. 
For Acute inactiveness, which is found to be severe, other ‘healthy’ parameters are removed from the algorithm. For single activity sensor (Nedap Eating or SCR Rumination tags) the threshold value of severe is higher than the combined tags (Nedap Smarttag or SCR Sensehub tag), which can detect inactiveness earlier as they cover more of the cow’s activities. 

Conductivity  
Last milkings conductivity values are evaluated and only highest teat is taken into account. As conductivity data is already normalized around 70, these values are used in an absolute way. The level where they (can) show up on the report is minimum 83.  
Note: for reporting we show the highest teat, + all teats with an attention, to make sure we don’t let the farmer miss the other quarters.  
Note: When last milking has failed to milk certain teat and last successful milkng had a conductivity for that teat than teat will be taken into account.  

Conductivity Chronic  
For teats where the number of times that teat had an attention is over 50% in last 14 days (excluding last 3 days) the conductivity is judged as “Conductivity chronic” this means value still expressed as conductivity but severeness is less as this case seems to be a chronic case.  

Temperature  
In the MQC temperature is measured on 4 quarters, the highest temperature is sent to T4C in the milk result.  
Healthy cows have an expected temperature around 38.6 for sick cows it’s on average an degree higher. Temperature is measured absolutely, as the sensors are factory calibrated.  
For situations where it is really hot, the algorithm looks at location average temperatue and if this is above 38.8 then it sets its ‘healthy’ levels higher to prevent false positives due to high outside temperatures  
Note: differences between robots are taken away in T4C.  
Note: Temperatures from MQCII are included only. MQCII is installed since A3Next and A4.  

TimeAway  
Time away is evaluated in %, comparing current interval (last milking till now) with moving average (7days) milking frequency. For reporting we present as hh:mm  

SCC Indication  
Last cell count measured is taken into account only and compared against absolute levels.For the logarithmic behavior, values are first log transformed than evaluated, and transformed back for reporting purposes.  

FatProteinRatio  
The ratio is calculated by dividing fat over protein. Only values from cows between 5 and 100 day in lactation are taken into account.  

MQC color: Watery Mastitis Blood Abnormal  
Values are evaluated as true/false per parameter  
Note: sometimes both blood & mastitis appear on the same teat & milking, in the algorithm both are evaluated and shown. In T4C cow card reports you might not find the blood attention because we only show single value per teat. Note: even though the same attention might appear on multiple quarters it will get the same weight in the algorithm.  
Note: When last milking has failed to milk certain teat and last succesfull milkng had a colourcode for that teat than the colourcode for that teat will be taken into account.  

MilkTrend  
Based upon herd curve which is available for primiparous and multiparous cows, each cow is compared against average cow in the farm in the first 3 weeks of lactation. If the cow yield is significantly low it will be giving an alarm.  
As this parameter is evaluating milk yield, it will be compared with milkdrop and the worst one of the 2 will be maintained.  

FeedRest %  
If a cow did not visit the robot, or Cosmix enough and she has more than 50% of the credit left of the total credit she got the last 24 hours, she will generate rest feed. This term should not be confused with the amount of feed left in the feed bin after she leaves the robot. For more insight in the calculation, visit this page.
Note: Rest feed is not taken into account in the health score below 3 days in lactation. 

Reproduction – Pregnancy rate
This reproduction report provides an overview of the pregnancy rate per herd. Insights into the reproduction success of your cows will provide you with the opportunity to plan and act accordingly, as good reproduction management supports good lifetime milk production.

When opening the report, you can select the desired lactation number, herd and a specific date or day range. The calculations in the report are explained below in more detail.

Date
The date in the column of the report represents the 21 day reproduction cycle and the calculation is based on the input 6 to 9 weeks before the presented date, meaning:

- End date of 21 days is – 6 weeks

- Start date of 21 days is -9 weeks + 1 day

For example, today is 01/25/2023. The newest date in the column is 01/19/2023, these numbers are based on the input of the data between 11/18/2022 and 12/08/2022. The next available date will be 02/09/2023. These dates are the same for every farm.

No. Eligible
To determine if a cow is eligible for becoming pregnant, the following is included in the calculation:

- Lactation days ≥ voluntary waiting period

- Lactation days ≤ 200 lactation days

- Reproduction status:

- Open

- Never inseminated (youngstock)

- Open cyclic

- Inseminated and not pregnant from this insemination

- Cow is inseminated within the period

AND

At end of the period, the reproduction status is not keep open

Excluded:

- Cows between insemination and positive pregnancy during the specific period

- Cows which are not eligible or not inseminated during the specific period

- Sires

No. Inseminated
Calculation contains all lactating cows with an insemination. Cows inseminated twice in the period are counted as 1.

No. Pregnant
Calculation contains all lactating cows with an insemination that was confirmed pregnant.

% Inseminated & % Pregnant
The infographic below shows an example of how the insemination-, conception-, and the pregnancy rate is calculated and where the numbers come from. If the pregnancy rate is below 25%, there are several solutions you can try. Keep in mind that the lower the number of cows on the farm, the more variable the pregnancy rate can be.

 

Check 90% certainty: If less than 90% of the inseminated animals have a result, then pregnancy rate is not shown and this field is empty because the number is not reliable. Possible results are; pregnant (either through auto preg, or with a confirmed preg check), not pregnant (new heat registered, or a negative preg check), or culled (counted as result, but the animal is not counted as pregnant or not pregnant).

Automatic heat and pregnancy detection

If the automatic heat and pregnancy detection are turned on for the farm, they are also counted as a result for an insemination. If an automatic heat is detected, the result for the insemination is “not pregnant.” If a cow is auto pregnant, the result is “pregnant.” The goal of the automatic pregnancy detection is to mark cows as “auto pregnant.” The advantage of this functionality is that fewer cows need to be checked for pregnancy by the vet.

Transition report
This report provides an overview of the relevant parameters for dry cows and cows in the first days of lactation and helps you to monitor changes over time.

Where can you find the report?
Go to Reports > Transition report


How to use the report?
The transition report shows milk production over the past 24 hours, sick chance, and the three-day difference in rumination activity. Deviations in one or more of these parameters might be an indication of disease. For example, research has shown that a drop-in rumination activity during dry off could increase the risk of problems during the start-up phase.

You can personalize which cows you see on the report via the settings button. To personalize the report, carry out the following steps:

Step 1: Go to settings in the top right-hand corner.

 

Step 2: Set the filter according to which cows you would like to see on the report.